net, virt: RHCOS9 and RHCOS10 Worker Nodes Support (#65)
RedHatQE/openshift-virtualization-tests-design-docs: stps/sig-network/rhcos9-rhcos10-nodes-net-support.md

Reviewer: This is a sig-virt owned feature, please relocate under their folder.
Also, I would start with placing it under a folder, like `heterogeneous-rhcos9-rhcos10` folder (the file name being something like `network.md`).

- [x] Test environment can be **set up and configured** (see Section II.3 - Test Environment)

#### **5. Risks**

**Timeline/Schedule**

- [x] **Risk:** Main STP is not ready
  - **Mitigation:** Focus on network aspect of the requested feature
  - *Estimated impact on schedule:* N/A

**Test Coverage**

- [x] **Risk:** Not testing Tier2 network tests on heterogeneous cluster.
  - **Mitigation:** Running regression on RHCOS10 cluster + dedicated tests on heterogeneous cluster provides sufficient coverage
  - *Areas with reduced coverage:*

**Test Environment**

- [x] **Risk:** Dedicated all-RHCOS 10 cluster for network Tier 2 regression is not yet available.
  - **Mitigation:** Coordinate with QE DevOps to provision a dedicated all-RHEL 10 cluster for network Tier 2 regression.
  - *Missing resources or infrastructure:* No RHCOS10 clusters available for network Tier2 regression.

**Untestable Aspects**

- [x] **Risk:** All components are testable

**Resource Constraints**

- [x] **Risk:** No special resource requirements

**Dependencies**

- [x] **Risk:** The main STP has not been started yet, which may leave gaps in overall test coverage alignment.

>   - **Mitigation:** Proceed with the network-scoped STP independently; sync the main STP is available to identify and resolve any overlaps or gaps.

Author: Done

OVN-K = OVN-Kubernetes, the default CNI network provider

### **Feature Overview**

Starting with OCP 4.22, OpenShift Virtualization must support heterogeneous clusters running both RHCOS 9 (el9, RHEL 9 kernel) and RHCOS 10 (el10, RHEL 10 kernel) worker nodes simultaneously - referred to as dual-stream clusters.
From a network perspective, the critical requirement is that VM live migration works correctly across node types without network disruption.
Network testing must explicitly validate migration scenarios on a mixed-node cluster, in addition to ensuring existing Tier 2 network coverage runs cleanly against RHCOS 10-only clusters.

---

### **I. Motivation and Requirements Review (QE Review Guidelines)**

#### **1. Requirement & User Story Review Checklist**

- [x] **Review Requirements**
  - *List the key D/S requirements reviewed:* VM live migration must work without network disruption in both directions on a mixed-node (RHEL 9 + RHEL 10) cluster, and overall network functionality must work on an all-RHEL 10 cluster.

- [x] **Understand Value and Customer Use Cases**

>   - *Describe the feature's value to customers:* Customers can migrate their clusters from RHEL 9 to RHEL 10 nodes without service disruption, maintaining VM network connectivity and live migration capability throughout the transition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - *Describe the feature's value to customers:* Customers can upgrade their clusters from RHEL 9 to RHEL 10 nodes, gradually, without service disruption, maintaining VM network connectivity and live migration capability throughout the transition.
```

Author: Done and rephrased in other places
